We will work with anybody across that aisle-
if they are there to move America forward.
But let me be very clear, if their agenda
is simply investigations, impeachment,
and not focused on the hard-working American public,
we’ll be there to defend the American public.
That’s Kevin McCarthy.
Former toasted sandwich slinger,
and the current House majority leader.
He’s in charge of helping the Republican agenda get
through congress, and likely protecting the President.
He’s outnumbered, and some sources say
he’s not tough or smart enough for the job:
[TRUMP] You know Kevin McCarthy
is out, you know that, right?
[Applause]
And they’re giving me a lot of
credit for that because I said
‘you really need somebody very very tough and very smart.’'
Kevin Owen McCarthy was born in 1965 to
working class Democrats in Bakersfield, California.
McCarthy worked to pay for his first semester
at Bakersfield College, a community college.
After re-selling cars he bought at auctions in LA,
he decided to try his luck on a scratcher.
He won $5,000 and with it, opened
up “Kevin O’s Deli” at just 19 years old.
The deli served up toasted subs,
which McCarthy thinks he invented.
He claims his establishment
was ‘Subway before Subway.’
But perhaps ‘Subway during Subway’ would’ve worked better
as there was already a Subway. In the same town.
Much like Subway lied about the length of their footlong subs,
McCarthy may have been lying about…everything...
At least according to A Washington Post Fact Checker piece.
According to the Post, McCarthy
couldn’t have won the lottery at 19 —
the California lottery didn’t start selling tickets
until 1985 when McCarthy would’ve been almost 21.
And as far as his very own deli goes, it was apparently just a
counter and a refrigerator in his aunt and uncle’s yogurt shop.
In a 1986 review of the shop, the writer noted,
It is unclear if he invented toasting subs.
Either way, McCarthy claims he ran the deli for two years
before selling it and using the funds to go to college.
But the Post alleges this too is false.
A spokesman for Cal State Bakersfield, said the school
records show McCarthy started school in 1987,
one year after the deli opened.
McCarthy’s effort to allegedly embellish his
‘small business’ didn’t wane over the years.
[McCarthy] I was able to start a business when I was 19.
[McCarthy] I used to own a deli. And
the struggles of what you go through.
[McCarthy] I think it holds me more
accountable, I get to serve constituents.
While he was at California
State University, Bakersfield,
McCarthy applied for an internship for
local California congressman Bill Thomas.
He didn’t get the gig, but later
became his District Director.
[THOMAS] Actually the thing I’m probably proudest of is…..ummm….
In 2002, McCarthy was elected to the California State Assembly,
becoming the Republican leader
during his freshman term in 2003.
After Thomas retired in 2006, McCarthy entered the
Republican primary for California’s 23rd district,
and won his boss’s seat handily with
71% of the vote in the general election.
He won re-election six times all the way to 2018.
And boy did he he spend a ton along the way.
McCarthy once gave his colleagues in the California Assembly
framed photos of Theodore Roosevelt
which were reportedly valued at $300 a piece.
Cool gift.
And in his 2014 run, McCarthy - through his
reelection campaign and leadership PAC -
spent $140,000 at steakhouses alone.
He also spent $426,000 on private jets.
But in 2015, McCarthy had his sights
set on something even bigger:
More steak.
Ah, I’m just kidding.
When John Boehner announced he was
going to resign as Speaker in 2015,
McCarthy announced his candidacy for the role.
But it was short-lived.
Less than a month later, McCarthy
unexpectedly dropped out of the race.
A couple of factors were seemingly
involved in his abrupt ending:
rumors of an affair with a colleague circulated,
and after the House established the
Select Committee on Benghazi
to allegedly investigate what happened
around the terrorist attack in Benghazi,
McCarthy bragged that the committee
was destroying Hillary Clinton’s poll numbers.
[McCarthy] Everybody thought Hillary
Clinton was unbeatable, right?
[McCarthy] But we put together a Benghazi
special committee, a select committee.
[McCarthy] What are her numbers today? Her numbers
are dropping, why? Because she’s untrustable.
Republicans weren’t thrilled with his admission,
and in October of 2015, McCarthy dropped out of the race.
[McCarthy] I think we’re only going to be stronger, we fought hard to
win this majority and turn this country around.
[McCarthy] And this will be our best-
step- best - foot - uh - foot step - forwar-
When news broke of the Russians hacking the DNC,
McCarthy openly discussed Trump’s
controversial relationship with Putin.
In a private conversation between
McCarthy and Paul Ryan, McCarthy said,
And then he adds:
There’s laughter in the room and then McCarthy adds:
Paul Ryan is stepping down at the end of his term,
and McCarthy easily won an internal
party election against Jim Jordan
to take over as minority leader in January.
But McCarthy almost ruined his chances once again.
Ahead of the 2018 midterms, McCarthy posted a tweet asserting
that Jewish political donors like George Soros
were trying to buy the midterms.
McCarthy posted the tweet AFTER
Soros received a pipe bomb in the mail.
When McCarthy takes over as Minority Leader in January,
he is slated to work with Democrats,
so long as it’s not exposing the president.
A big shift from what he was willing
to do with the previous president.
[McCarthy] I think when we watch a president stand in the well and
say ‘I’ll use my phone and my pen to go around the constitution’
[McCarthy] and people stand up and applaud,
I don’t care if that person’s republican or democrat,
[McCarthy] that’s not the country or
what the constitution says to do.
[McCarthy] So whether this person in the
administration’s republican or democrat,
[McCarthy] I think you need to check and balance.